README.md, before:

# __Python Project Shell Automation__

This project is inspired by __Kalle Hallden__

- [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7Y8Ppin12r4)
- [Github](https://github.com/KalleHallden/ProjectInitializationAutomation)

In this repo I've provided my version of shell automation for python projects, lets get started.

## Usage

### Requirements

- Install [VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/download)
- If you are using windows, download [Git](https://git-scm.com/download/win), which will install Git Bash as well. Then open Git Bash and run following commands
- Install PyGithub, for GitHub integration.

   `$ pip3 install PyGithub`

- Install Pyautogui, for automating keyboard to activate the virtual environment, and upgrade the pip.
   `$ pip3 install pyautogui`

- Install Python-dotenv, for handeling environment variables in the virtual environment.
   `$ pip3 install python-dotenv`

### Step 1.
You need to set 3 environment variables:

- `GITHUB_USERNAME`: Your github username
- `GITHUB_PASSWORD`: Your github password
- `PROJECT_PATH`: Path where you want to store all your projects
- `BACKUP_PATH`: Path where you want to backup all your projects....
I'd recommend setting it to onedrive path, which periodically syncs all your files within onedrive to cloud

Checkout these tutorials to get it done

[For Mac/Linux](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5iWhQWVXosU)

[For Windows](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IolxqkL7cD8)

### Step 2.

In the shell, run the following commands:
- `$ git clone https://github.com/braindotai/Shell-Python-Project-Automation.git`
- `$ cd Shell-Python-Project-Automation`
- `$ mv project.py project`
- `$ chmod +x project`
- `$ mkdir ~/bin`
- `$ cp project ~/bin"`
- `$ echo 'export PATH=$PATH":$HOME/bin"' >> .profile`
Then go back to working directory
- `$ cd ..`

### Step 3.

1. __To create a project__

   `project create <project name> <description> <private (True/False)> <homepage url>`

 Example:

    $ project create "new project" "this is my description for GitHub repository" "False"

    [============= Initiating project: new project =============]

    Creating Readme file ....
    Creating Environment Variables ....
    Creating Virtual Environment ....
    Initiating Git Integration ....
    Initialized empty Git repository in C:/Users/brain/Desktop/Projects/new project/.git/
    [master (root-commit) b2963d5] Initial Commit
    2 files changed, 3 insertions(+)
    create mode 100644 .gitignore
    create mode 100644 README.md
    Adding remote URL
    Pushing initial commit ....
    Enumerating objects: 4, done.
    Counting objects: 100% (4/4), done.
    Delta compression using up to 8 threads
    Compressing objects: 100% (2/2), done.
    Writing objects: 100% (4/4), 282 bytes | 282.00 KiB/s, done.
    Total 4 (delta 0), reused 0 (delta 0)
    To https://github.com/braindotai/new-project-name.git
    * [new branch]      master -> master
    Branch 'master' set up to track remote branch 'master' from 'origin'.
    Opening project

    [============= Project initiated successfully =============]

- This creates a project named "new project" in your "PROJECT_PATH"
- And sets that directory as github master repository
- Then create the Github repository with name "new project", description "this is my description", private setting (True/False) and homepage url as "https://mywebsitename.com"
- Then adds the Github remote url to the project directory
- Then creates the README.md file
- And commits an initial commit
- Then push the initial commit to master repo
- Then opens the VS Code through that project directory


__Now that's marvelous!!__

2. __To print names of projects existing in your PROJECT_PATH__

   `project list`
 
Example:
 
    $ project list
    1. Custom-Linux-Command-Creator
    2. Deep-Learning-Scratch-Arena
    3. Dr-Deep
    4. Kaggle-Exploratory-Data-Analysis
    5. Shell Python Project Automation

3. __To open a project__

    `project open <project name>`

Example:

    $ project open shell python project automation

4. __To check directories of a project__

    `project <project name>`

Example:

    $ project shell python project automation

5. __To delete a project__

   `project delete <project name>`

Example:
 
    $ project delete new project
    Project "new project" is deleted successfully

6. __To print repository details__

   `project repo <repo name>`
 
Example:
 
    $ project repo dr deep

    =============== dr deep ===============
    Contents:
        .gitignore
        Blood Cells
        Breast Cancer
        Heart Attack
        LICENSE
        README.md
        Retinal OCT
        Skin Cancer
        Tuberculosis
        samples

    Branches:
        master

    Issues: 0
    Private: False
    Starts: 0
    Forked False
    Forks: 0
    Watchers: 0
    Language: Python
    Owner: braindotai
    URL: https://github.com/braindotai/Dr-Deep
    SSH URL: git@github.com:braindotai/Dr-Deep.git
    =======================================

7. __To list all repositories__

   `project repo list`
 
Example:
 
    $ project repo list
    1. Custom-Linux-Command-Creator
    2. Deep-Learning-Scratch-Arena
    3. Dr-Deep
    4. Dxeon
    5. incubator-mxnet
    6. Kaggle-Exploratory-Data-Analysis
    7. KDD18-Gluon
    8. MXNet-Gluon-Tutorials
    9. pandas-videos
    10. reinforcement-learning
    11. Reinforcement-Learning-Scratch-Arena
    12. Shell-Python-Project-Automation

8. __To delete a repository__

   `project repo delete <repository name>`

Example:
 
    $ project repo delete new project
    Repository "new project" is deleted successfully

9. __To create a backup of a project__

    `project backup <project name>`

Example:

    $ project backup shell python project automation
    Project "shell python project automation" is backuped successfully


10. __For help you can run__

     `project help`

# __Your Welcome__

Commit message:

updated read me for project environment variables

README.md, after:

# __Python Project Shell Automation__

This project is inspired by __Kalle Hallden__

- [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7Y8Ppin12r4)
- [Github](https://github.com/KalleHallden/ProjectInitializationAutomation)

In this repo I've provided my version of shell automation for python projects, lets get started.

## Usage

### Requirements

- Install [VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/download)
- If you are using windows, download [Git](https://git-scm.com/download/win), which will install Git Bash as well. Then open Git Bash and run following commands
- Install PyGithub, for GitHub integration.

   `$ pip3 install PyGithub`

- Install Pyautogui, for automating keyboard to activate the virtual environment, and upgrade the pip.
   `$ pip3 install pyautogui`

- Install Python-dotenv, for handeling environment variables in the virtual environment.
   `$ pip3 install python-dotenv`

### Step 1.
You need to set 3 environment variables:

- `GITHUB_USERNAME`: Your github username
- `GITHUB_PASSWORD`: Your github password
- `PROJECT_PATH`: Path where you want to store all your projects
- `BACKUP_PATH`: Path where you want to backup all your projects....
I'd recommend setting it to onedrive path, which periodically syncs all your files within onedrive to cloud

Checkout these tutorials to get it done

[For Mac/Linux](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5iWhQWVXosU)

[For Windows](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IolxqkL7cD8)

### Step 2.

In the shell, run the following commands:
- `$ git clone https://github.com/braindotai/Shell-Python-Project-Automation.git`
- `$ cd Shell-Python-Project-Automation`
- `$ mv project.py project`
- `$ chmod +x project`
- `$ mkdir ~/bin`
- `$ cp project ~/bin"`
- `$ echo 'export PATH=$PATH":$HOME/bin"' >> .profile`
Then go back to working directory
- `$ cd ..`

### Step 3.

1. __To create a project__

   `project create <project name> <description> <private (True/False)> <homepage url>`

 Example:

    $ project create "new project" "this is my description for GitHub repository" "False"

    [============= Initiating project: new project =============]

    Creating Readme file ....
    Creating Environment Variables ....
    Creating Virtual Environment ....
    Initiating Git Integration ....
    Initialized empty Git repository in C:/Users/brain/Desktop/Projects/new project/.git/
    [master (root-commit) b2963d5] Initial Commit
    2 files changed, 3 insertions(+)
    create mode 100644 .gitignore
    create mode 100644 README.md
    Adding remote URL
    Pushing initial commit ....
    Enumerating objects: 4, done.
    Counting objects: 100% (4/4), done.
    Delta compression using up to 8 threads
    Compressing objects: 100% (2/2), done.
    Writing objects: 100% (4/4), 282 bytes | 282.00 KiB/s, done.
    Total 4 (delta 0), reused 0 (delta 0)
    To https://github.com/braindotai/new-project-name.git
    * [new branch]      master -> master
    Branch 'master' set up to track remote branch 'master' from 'origin'.
    Opening project

    [============= Project initiated successfully =============]

- This creates a project named "new project" in your "PROJECT_PATH"
- And sets that directory as github master repository
- Then create the Github repository with name "new project", description "this is my description", private setting (True/False) and homepage url as "https://mywebsitename.com"
- Then adds the Github remote url to the project directory
- Then creates the README.md file
- And commits an initial commit
- Then push the initial commit to master repo
- Then opens the VS Code through that project directory

__Now that's marvelous!!__

2. __Setting the environment variables for you're project__

    You can set you're environment variables in the .vars file.

    ```python
    USERNAME = 'my username'
    PASSWORD = 'my passward'
    ``` 

3. __To print names of projects existing in your PROJECT_PATH__

   `project list`
 
Example:
 
    $ project list
    1. Custom-Linux-Command-Creator
    2. Deep-Learning-Scratch-Arena
    3. Dr-Deep
    4. Kaggle-Exploratory-Data-Analysis
    5. Shell Python Project Automation

4. __To open a project__

    `project open <project name>`

Example:

    $ project open shell python project automation

5. __To check directories of a project__

    `project <project name>`

Example:

    $ project shell python project automation

6. __To delete a project__

   `project delete <project name>`

Example:
 
    $ project delete new project
    Project "new project" is deleted successfully

7. __To print repository details__

   `project repo <repo name>`
 
Example:
 
    $ project repo dr deep

    =============== dr deep ===============
    Contents:
        .gitignore
        Blood Cells
        Breast Cancer
        Heart Attack
        LICENSE
        README.md
        Retinal OCT
        Skin Cancer
        Tuberculosis
        samples

    Branches:
        master

    Issues: 0
    Private: False
    Starts: 0
    Forked False
    Forks: 0
    Watchers: 0
    Language: Python
    Owner: braindotai
    URL: https://github.com/braindotai/Dr-Deep
    SSH URL: git@github.com:braindotai/Dr-Deep.git
    =======================================

8. __To list all repositories__

   `project repo list`
 
Example:
 
    $ project repo list
    1. Custom-Linux-Command-Creator
    2. Deep-Learning-Scratch-Arena
    3. Dr-Deep
    4. Dxeon
    5. incubator-mxnet
    6. Kaggle-Exploratory-Data-Analysis
    7. KDD18-Gluon
    8. MXNet-Gluon-Tutorials
    9. pandas-videos
    10. reinforcement-learning
    11. Reinforcement-Learning-Scratch-Arena
    12. Shell-Python-Project-Automation

9. __To delete a repository__

   `project repo delete <repository name>`

Example:
 
    $ project repo delete new project
    Repository "new project" is deleted successfully

10. __To create a backup of a project__

    `project backup <project name>`

Example:

    $ project backup shell python project automation
    Project "shell python project automation" is backuped successfully


11. __For help you can run__

     `project help`

# __Your Welcome__
